doc/harpoon/interactive-reference.rst, before:

.. _interactive-reference:

Interactive Command Reference
=============================

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. _administrative commands:

Administrative tactics
----------------------

Administrative tactics are used to navigate the proof, obtain information about
functions or constructors, or to prove a lemma in the middle of another proof.

``undo``
^^^^^^^^

Undoes the effect of a previous :ref:`proof tactic <proof tactics>`.
See :ref:`undo`.


``redo``
^^^^^^^^

Undoes the effect of a previous ``undo``.
See :ref:`undo`.

``history``
^^^^^^^^^^^

Displays the ``undo`` history. See :ref:`undo`.

.. _cmd-theorem:

``theorem list``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lists all theorems in the current session.

``theorem defer``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Moves the current theorem to the bottom of the theorem stack, selecting the next
theorem.

See :ref:`cmd-select` for a more flexible way to select a theorem.

``theorem show-ihs``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Display the induction hypotheses available in the current subgoal.

.. note::

    This is a debugging command, and the output is not particularly
    human-readable.

``theorem dump-proof PATH``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Records the current theorem's partial proof to ``PATH``.

``theorem show-proof``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Displays the current theorem's partial proof.

.. _cmd-session-list:

``session list``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lists all active sessions together with all theorems within each session.

``session defer``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Moves the current session to the bottom of the session stack and selects the
next one.

See :ref:`cmd-select` for a more flexible way to select a theorem.

``session create``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Creates a new session. This command will start the :ref:`session configuration
wizard` for setting up the theorems in the new session.

``session serialize``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Saves the current session as partial proofs to the signature.

``subgoal list``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lists all remaining subgoals in the current theorem.

``subgoal defer``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Moves the current subgoal to the bottom of the subgoal stack and selects the
next one.

.. _cmd-select:

``select``
^^^^^^^^^^

``select NAME`` selects a theorem by name for proving.
See the :ref:`session list <cmd-session-list>` command.

.. note::

    When selecting a theorem from another session, be aware of the consequences
    this has on scoping. See :ref:`changing sessions`.

.. _cmd-rename:

``rename``
^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

    Renaming is poorly supported at the moment.

    The resulting Harpoon proof script that is generated by interactive proving
    will not contain the renaming, and this could lead to accidental variable
    capture.

Renames a variable. Use ``rename meta SRC DST`` to rename a metavariable and
``rename comp SRC DST`` to rename a program variable.

.. _cmd-toggle-automation:

``toggle-automation``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``toggle-automation AUTO [STATE]`` to change the state of proof automation
features. See :ref:`Proof automation` for available values for ``AUTO``.

Valid values for ``STATE`` are ``on``, ``off``, and ``toggle``. If unspecified,
``STATE`` defaults to ``toggle``.

.. _cmd-type:

``type``
^^^^^^^^

Use ``type EXP`` to display the computed type of the given synthesizable
expression ``EXP``.

.. _cmd-info:

``info``
^^^^^^^^

Use ``info KIND OBJ`` to get information on the ``KIND`` named ``OBJ``.

Valid values for ``KIND`` are

* ``theorem``: displays information about the Beluga program or Harpoon proof
  named ``OBJ``.

.. _proof tactics:

Proof tactics
-------------

.. _cmd-intros:

``intros``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``intros [NAME...]`` to introduce assumptions into the context.

This tactic is applicable when the goal type is a function type (either simple
or dependent).

For Pi-types, the name of the assumption matches the name used in the Pi. For
arrow-types, names will be taken from the given list of names, in order. If no
names are given explicitly, then names are automatically generated.

On success, this tactic will replace the current subgoal with a new subgoal in
which the assumptions are in the context.

.. note::

    It is uncommon to use this tactic directly due to
    :ref:`automation <auto intros>`.

.. _cmd-split:

``split``
^^^^^^^^^

Use ``split EXP`` to perform case analysis on the synthesizable expression ``EXP``.

On success, this tactic removes the current subgoal and introduces a new subgoal
for every possible constructor for ``EXP``.

.. _cmd-msplit:

``msplit``
^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``msplit MVAR`` to perform case analysis on the metavariable ``MVAR``.

This command is syntactic sugar for a more verbose command using ``split``.

.. _cmd-by:

``by``
^^^^^^

Use ``by EXP as VAR [BOXITY]`` to invoke a lemma or induction hypothesis
represented by the synthesizable expression ``EXP`` and bind the result to the
name ``VAR``.
The optional parameter ``BOXITY`` specifies at what level the binding occurs.

Valid values for ``BOXITY`` are

* ``boxed`` (default): the binding is made as a computational variable.
* ``unboxed``: the binding is made as a metavariable.

Note that ``unboxed`` is permitted only if the computed type of ``EXP`` is a
boxed contextual type.

On success, this tactic replaces the current subgoal with a subgoal having one
additional entry in the appropriate context.

.. _cmd-unbox:

``unbox``
^^^^^^^^^

The command ``unbox EXP as X`` is syntactic sugar for ``by EXP as X unboxed``.
See also :ref:`by <cmd-by>`.

.. _cmd-solve:

``solve``
^^^^^^^^^

Use ``solve EXP`` to complete the proof by providing an explicit checkable
expression ``EXP``.

The expression ``EXP`` must check against the current subgoal's type.

On success, this tactic removes the current subgoal, introducing no new
subgoals.

.. _cmd-suffices:

``suffices``
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``suffices by EXP toshow TAU...`` to reason backwards via the synthesizable
expression ``EXP`` by constructing proofs for each type ``TAU``.

This command captures the common situation when a lemma or computational
constructor can be used to complete a proof, because its conclusion is
(unifiable with) the subgoal's type. In this case, it suffices to construct the
arguments to the lemma or constructor in order to complete the proof.

The main restriction on ``suffices`` is that the expression ``EXP`` must
synthesize a type of the form

.. code-block:: Beluga

    {X1 : U1} ... {Xn : Un} tau_1 -> ... -> tau_k -> tau

Thankfully, this is the most common form of type one sees when working with
Beluga.

Each type ``tau_i`` must unify with the ``i`` th type given in the command.
It is through these unifications that the instantiations for all the Pi-bound
metavariables are found. It is an error if after unification, there remain
uninstantiated Pi-bound variables.

On success, one subgoal is generated for each ``tau_i``, and the current subgoal
is removed.

In principle, this command is redundant with ``solve`` because one could just
write ``solve EXP`` to invoke the lemma directly, but this can be quite
unwieldy if the arguments to the lemma are complicated.

.. note::

    The user-provided type annotations ``TAU...`` are allowed to refer to
    metavariables marked ``(not in scope)``.
    However, it is an error if an out-of-scope metavariable appears in the
    instantiation for an explicitly Pi-bound metavariable.

Commit message:

doc: strengthen command; LF subordination

doc/harpoon/interactive-reference.rst, after:

.. _interactive-reference:

Interactive Command Reference
=============================

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. _administrative commands:

Administrative tactics
----------------------

Administrative tactics are used to navigate the proof, obtain information about
functions or constructors, or to prove a lemma in the middle of another proof.

``undo``
^^^^^^^^

Undoes the effect of a previous :ref:`proof tactic <proof tactics>`.
See :ref:`undo`.


``redo``
^^^^^^^^

Undoes the effect of a previous ``undo``.
See :ref:`undo`.

``history``
^^^^^^^^^^^

Displays the ``undo`` history. See :ref:`undo`.

.. _cmd-theorem:

``theorem list``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lists all theorems in the current session.

``theorem defer``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Moves the current theorem to the bottom of the theorem stack, selecting the next
theorem.

See :ref:`cmd-select` for a more flexible way to select a theorem.

``theorem show-ihs``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Display the induction hypotheses available in the current subgoal.

.. note::

    This is a debugging command, and the output is not particularly
    human-readable.

``theorem dump-proof PATH``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Records the current theorem's partial proof to ``PATH``.

``theorem show-proof``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Displays the current theorem's partial proof.

.. _cmd-session-list:

``session list``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lists all active sessions together with all theorems within each session.

``session defer``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Moves the current session to the bottom of the session stack and selects the
next one.

See :ref:`cmd-select` for a more flexible way to select a theorem.

``session create``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Creates a new session. This command will start the :ref:`session configuration
wizard` for setting up the theorems in the new session.

``session serialize``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Saves the current session as partial proofs to the signature.

``subgoal list``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lists all remaining subgoals in the current theorem.

``subgoal defer``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Moves the current subgoal to the bottom of the subgoal stack and selects the
next one.

.. _cmd-select:

``select``
^^^^^^^^^^

``select NAME`` selects a theorem by name for proving.
See the :ref:`session list <cmd-session-list>` command.

.. note::

    When selecting a theorem from another session, be aware of the consequences
    this has on scoping. See :ref:`changing sessions`.

.. _cmd-rename:

``rename``
^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

    Renaming is poorly supported at the moment.

    The resulting Harpoon proof script that is generated by interactive proving
    will not contain the renaming, and this could lead to accidental variable
    capture.

Renames a variable. Use ``rename meta SRC DST`` to rename a metavariable and
``rename comp SRC DST`` to rename a program variable.

.. _cmd-toggle-automation:

``toggle-automation``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``toggle-automation AUTO [STATE]`` to change the state of proof automation
features. See :ref:`Proof automation` for available values for ``AUTO``.

Valid values for ``STATE`` are ``on``, ``off``, and ``toggle``. If unspecified,
``STATE`` defaults to ``toggle``.

.. _cmd-type:

``type``
^^^^^^^^

Use ``type EXP`` to display the computed type of the given synthesizable
expression ``EXP``.

.. _cmd-info:

``info``
^^^^^^^^

Use ``info KIND OBJ`` to get information on the ``KIND`` named ``OBJ``.

Valid values for ``KIND`` are

* ``theorem``: displays information about the Beluga program or Harpoon proof
  named ``OBJ``.

.. _proof tactics:

Proof tactics
-------------

.. _cmd-intros:

``intros``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``intros [NAME...]`` to introduce assumptions into the context.

This tactic is applicable when the goal type is a function type (either simple
or dependent).

For Pi-types, the name of the assumption matches the name used in the Pi. For
arrow-types, names will be taken from the given list of names, in order. If no
names are given explicitly, then names are automatically generated.

On success, this tactic will replace the current subgoal with a new subgoal in
which the assumptions are in the context.

.. note::

    It is uncommon to use this tactic directly due to
    :ref:`automation <auto intros>`.

.. _cmd-split:

``split``
^^^^^^^^^

Use ``split EXP`` to perform case analysis on the synthesizable expression ``EXP``.

On success, this tactic removes the current subgoal and introduces a new subgoal
for every possible constructor for ``EXP``.

.. _cmd-msplit:

``msplit``
^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``msplit MVAR`` to perform case analysis on the metavariable ``MVAR``.

This command is syntactic sugar for a more verbose command using ``split``.

.. _cmd-by:

``by``
^^^^^^

Use ``by EXP as VAR [MODIFIER]`` to invoke a lemma or induction hypothesis
represented by the synthesizable expression ``EXP`` and bind the result to the
name ``VAR``.
The optional parameter ``MODIFIER`` specifies at what level the binding occurs.

Valid values for ``MODIFIER`` are

* ``boxed`` (default): the binding is made as a computational variable.
* ``unboxed``: the binding is made as a metavariable.
* ``strengthened``: the binding is made as a metavariable, and its context is
  strengthened according to :ref:`LF Subordination`.

The ``unboxed`` and ``strengthened`` modifiers are permitted only if the
computed type of ``EXP`` is a boxed contextual type.

On success, this tactic replaces the current subgoal with a subgoal having one
additional entry in the appropriate context.

.. _cmd-unbox:

``unbox``
^^^^^^^^^

The command ``unbox EXP as X`` is syntactic sugar for ``by EXP as X unboxed``.
See also :ref:`by <cmd-by>`.

.. _cmd-strengthen:

``strengthen``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The command ``strengthen EXP as X`` is syntactic sugar for ``by EXP as X
strengthened``.
See also :ref:`by <cmd-by>`.

.. _cmd-solve:

``solve``
^^^^^^^^^

Use ``solve EXP`` to complete the proof by providing an explicit checkable
expression ``EXP``.

The expression ``EXP`` must check against the current subgoal's type.

On success, this tactic removes the current subgoal, introducing no new
subgoals.

.. _cmd-suffices:

``suffices``
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use ``suffices by EXP toshow TAU...`` to reason backwards via the synthesizable
expression ``EXP`` by constructing proofs for each type ``TAU``.

This command captures the common situation when a lemma or computational
constructor can be used to complete a proof, because its conclusion is
(unifiable with) the subgoal's type. In this case, it suffices to construct the
arguments to the lemma or constructor in order to complete the proof.

The main restriction on ``suffices`` is that the expression ``EXP`` must
synthesize a type of the form

.. code-block:: Beluga

    {X1 : U1} ... {Xn : Un} tau_1 -> ... -> tau_k -> tau

Thankfully, this is the most common form of type one sees when working with
Beluga.

Each type ``tau_i`` must unify with the ``i`` th type given in the command.
It is through these unifications that the instantiations for all the Pi-bound
metavariables are found. It is an error if after unification, there remain
uninstantiated Pi-bound variables.

On success, one subgoal is generated for each ``tau_i``, and the current subgoal
is removed.

In principle, this command is redundant with ``solve`` because one could just
write ``solve EXP`` to invoke the lemma directly, but this can be quite
unwieldy if the arguments to the lemma are complicated.

.. note::

    The user-provided type annotations ``TAU...`` are allowed to refer to
    metavariables marked ``(not in scope)``.
    However, it is an error if an out-of-scope metavariable appears in the
    instantiation for an explicitly Pi-bound metavariable.
